- [[Welcome]]
- [[README]]
- [[Schema]]
  collapsed:: true
	- People rarely restructure their thinking or their notes. At least according to the discourse folks
		- TODO Insert reference
- Post to Discourse Forums
	- With the upcoming release of multiplayer it seems like a good time to really flesh out a multi-graph workflow
	- With all the developments in nbb, lq and the graph parser, this seems easier than ever to stitch multiple graphs together , but I’m still trying to wrap my head around a good way to do it and I’m curious what the community has to say about it!
	- ## Inspirations
		- Roam Inter
		- GitHub File Getter plug-in
		- Drummer
		- Mastadon Toots
	- ## [[Graph References]]
		- Ideally it would be very easy to
			- Move a block from the graph I’m in to another without leaving the current graph
			- Sync a block between graphs or embed a block from one graph in another
			- Link to pages in other graphs and see backlinks from other graphs
			- Block reference across graphs
		- All of this should be possible with graphs either locally or public graphs on the internet or multiplayer graphs you have access to.
		- ## Approach
			- I can sort of think of several ways to achieve this but they all feel somewhat muddy. I’d love any thoughts or suggestions.
			- ### Built in
				- Obviously this would work best if it were functionality baked into Logseq itself. Are there plans within the team already to build out something like this?
			- ### Plug-in
				- Upon loading a plug-in queries all other graphs and looks for blocks
				- A [[plugin]] queries all graphs for blocks that are shared.
					- If the block is already in the graph it updates it, if not adds it to a dedicated page?
				- The plugin also queries for shared pages and synchronizes those???
				- On each page a [[page property]] specifies whether or not [[backlinks]] should be shared
- [[Test Page]]
- # Post
	- Wowie look at this little post.
	- This [[blog]] is exciting to me
- A big question about [[graphs]]
	- How many graphs is too many graphs???
	- Roam Inter and the [[Github]] file getter [[plugin]] are good models for inter graph relationships
- {{tweet https://twitter.com/histoftech/status/1537836068560678917?s=21&t=ExoRGJZHElhwyHFtZg8lPQ}}
-