---
publish: true
tags: review, writing/response, itp/thesis, seed
---
I'm responding to [Rethinking the Apocalypse: An Indigenous Anti-Futurist Manifesto](https://www.indigenousaction.org/rethinking-the-apocalypse-an-indigenous-anti-futurist-manifesto/) 

I first encountered this manifesto in [[Prediction As Planning]] last semester and since I have returned to it several times. As someone who is not an Indigenous person, I have to be careful in how I interpret this work so as to not romanticize indigenous thinking, but I will do my best to highlight why this such an important read. In my view, what makes this manifesto so powerful is its painfully clear depiction of our current world order and it's subsequent rejection of that premise.

The Manifesto opens with a scathing take down of apocalyptic thinking within colonial capitalism: the authors call our system "a world of fetishized endings calculated amidst the collective fiction of virulent specters." and they criticize our ability to imagine the future accordingly: "From religious tomes to fictionalized scientific entertainment, each imagined timeline constructed so predictably; beginning, middle, and ultimately, The End." This connects interestingly to work by [Paul J Kosmin](https://aeon.co/essays/when-time-became-regular-and-universal-it-changed-history) who makes the point that some of the first historical instances of apocalyptic fiction date back to the Seleucid empire which was one of the first the first known civilizations to implement a standard of countable time that outlasted the life of any one ruler. Somehow the apocalyptic end of times fantasy is deeply linked to origins of linear time. In any event, this manifesto details the specific ills of our colonial system, and summarizes it by calling this capitalist futurism "every future ever stolen by the plunderer, the warmonger and the rapist."

What happens next, however is the real gut punch: instead of describing means to combat this system, they reject the premise outright. The authors explain that their "ancestors understood that this [apocalyptic] way of being could not be reasoned or negotiated with... mitigated or redeemed.... the apocalyptic only exists in absolutes." Thus instead of suggesting remedies to fix the 'world' they simply articulate the truth that "Many worlds have gone before this one." They explain that their "traditional histories are tightly woven with the fabric of the birthing and ending of worlds." and that "Our ways of being are informed through finding harmony through and from the destruction of worlds. The Elliptic. Birth. Death. Rebirth." This, however should not be mistaken for a resignation: "The anti-colonial imagination isn’t a subjective reaction to colonial futurisms, it is anti-settler future. Our life cycles are not linear, our future exists without time. It is a dream, uncolonized." They go even further: "These systems are anti-life, they will not be compelled to cure themselves. We will not allow these corrupted sickened systems to recuperate." They seem to thus suggest that it is not a system that can or should be redeemed, but should be hastily terminated. They even go so far as to suggest that "In our past/your future it was the unsystematic non-linear attacks on vulnerable critical infrastructure such as gas utilities, transportation corridors, power supplies, communications systems, and more, that made settler colonialism an impossibility on these lands." This last bit points to specific action they seem to be suggesting. I can't weigh in on whether or not this type of action is 'worth taking' but I found the argument that these 'sickend systems' are 'anti-life' and should not be able to 'recupreate' very powerful.
